Add blog post (#4745)
cyberbotics/webots: docs/blog/Webots-2022-b-release.md

# Version R2022b Released

<p id="publish-data">By Daniel Dias - 7th June 2022</p>

---

It is that time of year again!
Today we are happy to announce the release of Webots R2022b!
This new version is packed with some new features, improvements and, of course, bug fixes.
But it doesn't come alone.
Simultaneously we are releasing [webots.cloud](https://webots.cloud), an open-source webservice to share your simulations online.

Here we are going to present some of the main new features, but for a comprehensive list of changes please refer to the [Change Log](../reference/changelog-r2022.md).

## New Robots

New robot models have been added to the Webots library, the [Crazyflie](../guide/crazyflie.md) quadrotor from [Bitcraze](https://www.bitcraze.io/).

> [Franka Emika](https://www.franka.de/)'s [Panda](../guide/panda.md) robot that comes with the [PandaHand](../guide/panda.md#panda-hand) gripper.

Reviewer: This is was not a sentence:
```suggestion
The [Franka Emika](https://www.franka.de/)'s [Panda](../guide/panda.md) robot comes with the [PandaHand](../guide/panda.md#panda-hand) gripper.
```

Last but not least, Webots finally includes a SCARA-type robot, namely the [SCARA T6](../guide/scara-epson-t6.md) from [Epson](https://epson.com/For-Work/Robots/SCARA/Synthis-T6-All-in-One-SCARA-Robots/p/RT6-602SS).

%figure "Scara T6, Panda and Crazyflie"
![Added Robots](images/robots_r2022b.png)
%end

You can discover these new robots by exploring the corresponding demo worlds under `File > Open Sample World`.

---

## New Assets

Additional models have been added to the Webots library, namely hospital-themed objects, gas canister and a static forklift.

%figure "New objects"
![Added Assets](images/assets_r2022b.png)
%end

Two new appearances have also been included, namely [WornBurlap](../guide/appearances.md#wornburlap) and [ScuffedPlastic](../guide/appearances.md#scuffedplastic).

%figure "New appearances"
![New Appearances](images/appearances_r2022b.png)
%end

And finally the "music hall" background was introduced.

---

## webots.cloud

[webots.cloud](https://webots.cloud) is an open-source webservice to share simulations online.

> You can share 3D scenes and animations recorded from a simulation, but also fully interactive simulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can share 3D scenes and animations recorded from simulations, but also fully interactive simulations.
```

#### Animations

- [PR2](https://webots.cloud/AcpeTj6)
- [Nao room](https://webots.cloud/AcTNYs0)

#### Simulations

- [OroBOT Simulation](https://webots.cloud/run?version=R2022b&url=https://github.com/ThomasOliverKimble/orobot/blob/main/worlds/OroBOT.wbt)
- [e-puck Simulation](https://webots.cloud/run?version=R2022b&url=https://github.com/ThomasOliverKimble/GuidedTour/blob/guided-tour/e-puck/worlds/e-puck_line_demo.wbt)

---

## Controller Improvements

Several improvements have been introduced in the way controllers communicate with Webots.
Until now, `<extern>` controllers had to be run in the same machine as the simulation, with R2022b however this is no longer the case and it is now possible for the controller to be run over TCP.
Using the `WEBOTS_CONTROLLER_URL` variable one can specify the url in the format `<protocol>://<machine_ip>:<webots_port>/<robot_name>` where the supported protocols can be `ipc` for a local connection or `tcp` for a remote one.
Additionally, the way Webots communicates with controllers has been modified, relying on memory mapped files instead of shared memory, allowing for controllers to be run from a docker.

> The change does not introduce a loss of performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change does not introduce any loss of performance.
```

Alternatively one could do the process manually by creating a [Shape](../reference/shape.md) object by defining the geometry using a [Mesh](../reference/mesh.md) node and setting the appearance using a [PBRAppearance](../reference/pbrappearance.md) node, however this approach required using third party software to split the meshes.
The [CadShape](../reference/cadshape.md) node attempts to simplify this process.
When provided a 3d model in collada (.dae) or wavefront (.obj) format, it will generate the corresponding geometry and apply the correct material and texture to every sub-mesh.
The [CadShape](../reference/cadshape.md), as the name implies, is restricted by the same rules that apply to ordinary [Shape](../reference/shape.md) nodes with the sole exception that [CadShape](../reference/cadshape.md) cannot be used as bounding objects.

%figure "Example of model loaded using CadShape"
![CadShape](images/cadshape_r2022b.png)
%end

---

## ROS2

With this release we are continuing to develop and improve the support for ROS 2 in Webots.
New features include:

- Added possibility of importing an URDF robot on the fly
- Added PointCloud2 support for RangeFinder device

> - Use [CadShape](../reference/cadshape.md) node to represent for visual tags with mesh

Reviewer 2: strange sentence

- Added support for humble and rolling

> And many other bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And many bug fixes.
```

---

## Extra Goodies

> - A very requested feature, R2022b comes with native support for Apple M1 processors on macOS

Reviewer 2: Are we sure it works?
